# Litvinov's presentation for PASC'17

## Virtual Erythrocyte - Constitutive Relations and Fluid-Cell Interactions.

For hydrodynamics erythrocyte consists of a membrane separating two
almost Newtonian liquid. We focus on a case of low Reynolds number and
both liquid are following Stokes equations. Many numerical method do a
good job modeling the Stokes flow. The complexity of the erythrocyte
comes from the mechanics of membrane and interaction between membrane
and liquids. If we model a membrane as a thin object the motion of the
membrane is controlled by no slip boundary conditions -- an assumption
that membrane moves with the same velocity as liquids on both sides
and a continuum version of a Newton law --- equality of liquid stress,
membrane stresses and acceleration. In simple situation such as
Newtonian membrane or Bingham solid membrane which remains spherical
analytically solutions are known. But experiments show that for
erythrocyte stresses are complex function of local strains and strain
rates. We use a particle method to model erythrocyte. The advantage of
a particle method is that it allows for easy introduction of complex
constitutive relationship by prescribing interaction on a particle
level. The disadvantages is that difficult to tell that macroscopic
law lead to. Our approach is to asses different version of of
constitutive relations and fluid-membrane interaction empirically by
comparing results with analytically solution if possible and
experiments, involving uncertaintiy quantification on unknown
parameters.

